* How to learn?

** Origin of this chapter

- Ruby Rouges (131)

** NOPS Trick

- Notice It
- Own It
- Push Into It
- Stay With It

** Programming Experts

*** Origin of Intuition

Mostly it is a consequence of trying one rule in many, various contexts until
you will run out of ideas how to apply it. And both responses will be
available - success and failure. The most beneficial are failures, because you
are learning then what went wrong and how to avoid it or how to properly apply
the rule in other contexts.

*** Practice makes Permanent

When you are trying to do one thing, and you are practicing it many times, how
do you know that you are doing it properly? And how do you know that the learned
behaviours are correct and wired properly in your head. If you do it wrong, by
practicing you can make it only permanent - not perfect.

*** Talent is not enough, Grit is necessary

Discipline, grit, Pomodoro - call it whatever you want to. Try, try, try and do
not give up.

** Books

*** Mind Hacks

- http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596007799.do

*** The 5 Elements of Effective Thinking

- http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0691156662/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0691156662&linkCode=as2&tag=chamaxwoo-20

*** Mastery

- http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/014312417X/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=014312417X&linkCode=as2&tag=chamaxwoo-20

** How to start?

*** 10000 hours myth

10 000 hours is necessary to be an EXPERT in certain field, not to learn
something. This amount is equal to 5 years of full-time job.

*** First 20 hours

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5MgBikgcWnY

The first 20 hours of knowing something (from the ground zero) are most crucial.
After that, with deliberate and organized practice without procrastination -
just honest 20 hours - you can say that you are reasonable good at something.

*** Talent is 'bullshit'

Talent is not a necessity to be proficient at something. Moreover it is also not
necessary for the expertise in any field. Deliberate practice, exercises,
passion and determination will make you a better expert, than just pure talent.

**** Types

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rHLTltK1kss

***** Drills

Fast, narrow, oriented on feedback exercises.

***** Imitation

Following and shadowing better than us, masters.

***** Simulation

Sparrings and trainings - in IT it can be a hackaton, playground - safe place
for testing ideas without stakes.

***** Case Studies

Studying previous, historical knowledge - tracking and understanding masters,
analyzing, learning and inference from knowledge left by better ones.

***** Direct Exercises

Deliberate practice, focused on doing stuff, moving it to the subconciousnes,
muscle memory. It is similar to the musician traning in closed room, without
audience in order to feel and track the rythm, being familiar with it.

** How to read a book?

*** Use a information retrieval bias

Informations that are desperately searched, are treated as more valuable than
these ones which are available and searched without hesitation.

You can trick it by preparing questions when you are reading what topics should
be covered after you have read the book. Answers should be provided as a direct
feedback and result of reading a book.

** Shallow/Deep Learning
** The Making of an Expert
